---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
ignite: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Gabor Veszi
title: "We love alerts at 2am"
---

**Abstract:**

When I joined Prezi I was promised that I don’t have to be on-call
ever. We promised this to everyone who joined our team. Last year we
decided that we’d like to be on-call and we are really happy about
this.

Through the story of the evolution of our monitoring system I’d like
talk about culture.

Last year we doubled our active user count. As more users mean more
responsibility, we had to concentrate on improving availability while
simultaneously scaling our backend. One important component of this
process is improvements in our monitoring system. I’d like to show how
a good monitoring system enables happy and effective component owners.


Originally we had the traditional, entirely separate Dev and Ops
silos: we contracted with a company that was responsible for
operations, and they used their own monitoring system. We added our
own application metrics to this system, and when they received an
alert they tried to solve the issue. As you can imagine, this
arrangement had some problems. We have since got rid of these silos,
bringing our ops in house, and are now much happier.


In this talk I'd like to present what we did to improve our monitoring
situation in small steps: we created our own monitoring system that
makes it trivial for developers to add checks of our complex system.
We introduced the concept of component ownership, and even though our
developers must be woken up for some alerts at night, everyone is more
satisfied than before.

The talk will go into detail about the system itself as well as the
social aspects of the arrangement.

**Speaker:**

Gabor Veszi
