---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Nikolaos Katsimpras
title: Harnessing The Power of Conflict
---

**Abstract:**

The increasing popularity of Devops the past few years signifies an
organic transition in the IT industry. A remarkably similar transition
has been slowly ongoing in multiple industries and fields, from
academia to finance and even policy. We have begun to realize the
paramount importance of effective interdisciplinary collaboration as
the only solution for the immense complexity of the next generation of
challenges. This requires a highly systemic approach that transcends
the traditional organizational barriers. Progressive, innovative, and
brilliant products require desiloisation, which creates conflict. The
word conflict may include cultural or lingual connotations of violence
and destruction, however once we harness its energy and steer it in a
productive manner then we can maximize our collective efficiency.
Devops is all about harnessing the power of conflict. This talk will
focus on the significance of effective conflict resolution for Devops
based on basic concepts of social psychology and systems thinking. It
will begin by addressing the role of each individual member and
transition into intra and inter group dynamics by introducing the
audience to notions of cooperation and competition, the value of
intellectual opposition, trust, and positive interdependence.

**Speaker:**

Nikolaos Katsimpras
