---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Luke Kanies
title: Hacking culture with better tools
---

**Abstract:**

Everyone knows technology can't solve political problems, but
sometimes software can make political problems small enough to make
them tractable. This talk will cover specific ways that software can
shrink political and cultural barriers, such as getting teams to work
together, spreading best practice across an organization, converting
from a push to a pull orgnaization, and focusing on the goal rather
than the mechanism. It will include cases from both within a
high-growth company and from the perspective of a software purveyor,
and we will cover both good examples and horrible warnings.

For example, many people try to switch from a culture of manually
maintaining systems to a fully automated world by rebuilding
everything, but as most developers could tell you, full rewrites
rarely work. Instead, we've seen many organizations successfully
change both the infrastructure and the team mentality by starting
small, building credibility over time, and always making the better
ways easier to do than the old ways.

Poor communication is also often a major source of cultural friction.
We have seen many cases where increases in communication, and
reduction in the cost of communication, quickly ramp up the gears of
change.

Conversely, strategic initiatives tend to cause everyone to lose sight
of their core jobs, or gain no traction because people do not want to
let the ball drop. With enough leadership and support, they can work,
but they're far more likely to fail, and fail big, than a more
guerrilla-style effort.

**Speaker:**

Luke Kanies
