---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Jeffrey Snover
title: "Desired State Configuration and Microsoft Windows"
---

**Abstract:**

Historically, Windows has been difficult to automate and configure.
The few tools that existed were weak and serious automation required
manipulating a plethora of APIs.  Over the last 6 years Microsoft has
transformed the Windows platform with substantial investments in:

      * PowerShell
      * Standards-based management

These investments have dramatically improved the ability of admins
(and developers) to automate enterprise and cloud datacenters.  With
the release of Windows Server 2012, nearly everything can be automated
locally or remotely using PowerShell or standards-based management
tools (even from Linux machines).

 
The needs of business-critical IT spawned the DevOps movement and the
need for uniform automation, rapid provisioning and repeatable
high-quality IT operations.  This spawned a new generation of Desired
State Configuration management tools.  These tools have had limited
success on Windows largely due to a mismatch of management
abstractions (Linux is a document-oriented OS whereas Windows is an
API-oriented OS).

 
In this talk I will present an overview of Windows management
progress.  I will discuss early failures in bringing Unix management
tools to Windows – why they didn’t work and what we needed to do to
make progress.  I’ll discuss our standards based management efforts
including OMI - our open source implementation of standards based
management.  I’ll spend the bulk of the talk describing how
standards-based management and open protocols fit into the Desired
State Configuration landscape.  I’ll describe how we can bridge the
gap to produce a world of universal automation that can (eventually)
extend to all the components in the datacenter - raw hardware,
storage, networking, OSes (Windows AND Linux), application frameworks,
applications, etc.


**Speaker:**

Jeffrey Snover is a Distinguished Engineer and Lead Architect for the
Windows Server & System Center Datacenter products, and is the
inventor of Windows PowerShell, an object-based distributed automation
engine, scripting language, and command line shell.
 
Responsible for setting the long term technical vision for these
products and running the technology planning for the releases;
ensuring the individual features combine to form a coherent customer
solution that is robust, competitive and is in line with our long term
architecture for industry wide initiatives particularly in areas of
datacenter management.
 
A thirteen year veteran to the company with over 30 years of industry
experience as the Divisional Architect for the Management and Services
Division, providing technical direction across Microsoft’s management
technologies and product solutions.
 
He was an architect in the office of the CTO at Tivoli and a
development manager of NetView, and had also worked as a Consulting
Engineer and development manager at DEC, where he led various network
and systems management projects.
 
He has held 8 patents prior to joining Microsoft, and has registered
30 patents since. He is a frequent speaker at industry and research
conferences on a variety of management and language topics.
