---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Damon Edwards
title: "Leading the Horses to Drink: A Practical Guide to Gaining Support and Initiating a DevOps Transformation"
---

**Abstract:**

Do these tales of woe sound familiar?: 

"I can't get my managers to support my DevOps efforts"

"Company politics prevent me from getting help from other teams"

"People say they are too busy getting real work done to worry about a
fad called DevOps"

"Our CIO wants 30 deployments per day and told me I have until next
quarter to to buy and implement the DevOps tool to make it happen"

These are all actual examples from companies lacking organizational
alignment. A lack of organizational alignment is the #1 killer of
DevOps dreams and good intentions. Left unchecked, a lack of
organizational alignment will undermine any improvement efforts you
attempt and continuously generate more disfunction throughout your
organization.


So what can you do? Organizational alignment sounds like a a
complicated and daunting culture issue, doesn't it? Where do you start
and how can you make progress?


In this presentation, I'll be walking you through a proven set of
design patterns for building organizational alignment. You'll walk
away from this presentation with the outline of a plan that you can
adapt and apply to your own organization. No special people skills or
management kung-fu required.


Your path to organizational alignment will contain three "acts":

Act 1: Making the case -- getting buy-in from your colleagues, support
from your managers, and the budget to bring a plan to life


Act 2: Learning to see -- getting the entire organization (up and down
the management chain as well as across the value stream) to see the
actual problems in the same way and talk about those problems using
the same language.


Act 3: Solution design and execution - getting the entire organization
to embark on continuous improvement (and to stay on course!)


**Speaker:**

Damon Edwards is a co-founder of DTO Solutions and has spent over 13
years working on both the technology and business ends of web
operations. DTO Solutions specializes in DevOps and automated
infrastructure consulting for large-scale and mission critical IT
operations. DTO clients include leading e-commerce, financial
services, and gaming companies such as Adobe, JPMorgan Chase, Zynga,
Cisco WebEx, Williams-Sonoma, and CCP Games. Damon is a frequent
conference speaker and contributor to the dev2ops.org blog where he
focuses on DevOps and operational process topics. Damon is also active
in the international DevOps community, including co-organizing DevOps
Days conferences and co-hosting the DevOps Cafe podcast.


