---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Michael Stahnke
title: DevOps outside of WebOps. Cultural change from the ground up.
---

**Abstract:**
DevOps has been a hot topic for several years, but  it’s nearly always
talked about with respect to web operations and startups. Since DevOps
starts culturally, you can take a bottom-up approach and create a
DevOps mindset inside your organization, even if you’re not deploying
code twenty times a day.

Culturally, you can win a DevOps ground war. In this talk we’ll
discuss changes to team, process and culture that can move your
organization forward. We’ll consider a reactive team mired in
fire-fighting and incapable of making headway, then watch as change
that betters the team’s output and perception throughout the
organization is slowly introduced. We’ll cover root-cause analysis
efforts, bringing pain forward, experimentation, and selling
automation and DevOps tooling to management.  This talk will not focus
on tools, but rather procedural and cultural improvements that can
make your operations team better.

**Notes:**

This case study is something I lived through at a business unit in one
of the largest companies in the world, (not an IT company).  I think
this talk is different than other talks in that DevOps days has always
hammered culture as the core item needed to succeed, but I felt like
it rarely offered tips and guides to fix or influence culture. Most
talks were about already awesome culture, which is great if you can
find it. Sometimes people can't job hop and relocate to find a better
culture so they have to influence and change their own business
culture.


**Speaker:**

Michael Stahnke

