---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Spencer Krum
title: "So you're the Puppet guy right?"
---

**Abstract:**

This is a talk about my experience at my employer UTi Worldwide Inc.
When I began a few months ago we had a Puppet infrastructure set up by
a contractor that didn't do anything and wasn't being touched. I was
brought in to change that and bring the light of automation to the
cave of the uber-corporate world. I thought my biggest challenge would
be technical, upgrading old Puppet infrastructure and automating app
deployment with Puppet. What I found was that my biggest challenge was
cultural. I needed to break down mental barriers and old habits, I
needed to reframe DevOps for an older generation of administrators, I
needed to teach not only the tools but the workflow and the mental
patterns of DevOps. I needed to lower the price of admission to the
automation expo. And most of the things I tried didn't work.

This is going to be my story of how we went from no Puppet, to me
sitting in the corner being the Puppet guy, to the whole team working
with Puppet, version control and data driven infrastructure over the
course of a few months. I'm going to talk about what I tried to do to
engage my team that didn't work, what did work, and what I would do
differently if I could do it all over again.

The title of this talk comes from what people would come up to my cube
and say to me. The team wanted to use Puppet, but for a while that
meant having the 'Puppet guy' do it, not the whole team working
collaboratively on a corpus of Puppet code.

I'm giving this talk primarily to reach the people who want to DevOps
but they're meeting resistance in their organization.

I've never given this talk before, but I've talked at PuppetConf,
Cascadia IT Conf, Open Source Bridge, and a few user groups in
Portland, including PdxDevOps and Puppet Users Group. I am a
comfortable public speaker and I usually get high marks for energy and
humor. I am a co-author of the soon-to-be-published second edition of
Pro Puppet (originally by James Turnbull and Jeff McCune.)

I'm mostly talking about our adoption of the Puppet tool, but this
will not be a talk about Puppet, it will be a talk about affecting
change and adoption of a new workflow. The entire talk could easily be
s/Puppet/Chef/g or s/Puppet/salt/g.

**Speaker:**

Spencer Krum
