---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: true
layout: event
author: Lindsay Holmwood
title: AA261 - DevOps lessons on collaborative maintenance
---

**Abstract:**

On January 31, 2000, Alaska Airlines Flight 261 plunged into the
Pacific ocean in an extreme "nose down" position, killing all 88 crew
and passengers on board. The NTSB concluded AA261's horizontal
stabiliser trim system's jackscrew was inadequately maintained,
causing the pilots to lose all control of the plane.

There are striking parallels with the problems we face daily in IT
operations & software development, and the 30 years of give and take
between the aircraft manufacturer's engineers, airline maintenance
staff, and federal regulators that preceded AA261's simple mechanical
failure.

In this talk, Lindsay will look at the complex interplay between the
parties in the AA261 crash through a DevOps lens, investigating the
collaborative approach to maintenance and operation of the MD-83
aircraft, and relating the complexities back to the complex IT systems
we build and maintain.

**Speaker:**

Lindsay Holmwood (<a href="https://twitter.com/auxesis"> @auxesis </a>) is a sysadmin/developer/://twitter.com/auxesistoolsmith/engineering
manager, living in the Australian Blue Mountains.

He runs a distributed infrastructure development team at Bulletproof
Networks that builds hassle free tools. He was responsible for
ensuring 100% uptime for the 2010, 2011, and 2012 Movember campaigns,
and works on scaling both internal and customer facing systems.

When not mentoring on building awesome monitoring infrastructure,
Lindsay organises the monthly Sydney DevOps Meetups, and organised the
DevOps Down Under conference in 2010 + 2011.

He also won third place at the 1996 Sydney Royal Easter Show LEGO
building competition.
