---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: George Moberly 
title: "DevOps+Agile=Business Transformation"
---

**Abstract:**

The new world order of business is increasingly centered on the speed in
which an organization can leverage digital commerce to rapidly deliver
goods and services to consumers.  This movement was ignited by the
success of companies such as Amazon and Google – who are disrupting
traditional businesses by serving consumers better and faster with
innovative technology.
 
To move at this kind of speed, businesses must transform.  This means IT
needs to be a front office strategic imperative to business and not the
back office support system for internal operations. The reality today is
that separation between Dev and Ops in large organizations still reigns
supreme. We all know this has to change.
 
In the Ops world many of us seeDevOps as the future.  Our developer
brethren think about Agile development practices and moving from
multi-month (or year!) development cycles to short sprints.  We are all
really talking about the same thing.  Breaking down organizational
boundary’s and  integrating teams to move faster.  Then integrating tool
chains so that we have common tooling and don’t need to hand off
artifacts (see CODE!) and continuously delivering innovation for the
business.  There is a process for making this transition and that we
here at Opscode have seen in practice.  George Moberly will talk about
the 5 key drivers of success in making that transition. 
 
Warning - business transformation is not for the light of heart! 

**Speaker:**

George Moberly 
