---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Dawn Foster
title: What we can learn about DevOps from Science Fiction
---

**Abstract:**
One of the important ideas behind DevOps is that people from
development and operations should work together, just like the Doctor
(a Time Lord) and his human companions work together to solve the
problems of the universe. We're moving away from a model where control
was centralized in the hands of a few, like the way the spice was
tightly controlled in Dune, and we're sharing more of the
responsibilities, like how the Stargate SG-1 team collaborates with
the Tok'ra, the Asgard and others. We also work to automate processes
and manage configurations, not unlike how Asimov created his 3 laws to
make sure that robots, like our servers, were well-behaved and
performing according to some standard rules. This is a fun session,
but it focuses on real lessons from DevOps as told through science
fiction.

Note: this would be similar to the talk that I recently gave at
LinuxCon, but with a focus on DevOps lessons, instead of community,
and it would be much shorter to fit the Ignite format:
http://www.slideshare.net/geekygirldawn/sci-fiandcommunity

Options: I could also do this as a community talk if you prefer to
have me
talk about community, instead of DevOps, since community is also very
relevant for DevOps projects.

**Speaker:**

Dawn Foster is the Community Manager at Puppet Labs. Dawn has more
than 18 years of experience in technology with expertise in community
building, open source software, and much more. She is passionate about
bringing people together through a combination of online communities
and real-world events. She has experience building new communities,
and managing existing communities with a particular emphasis on
developer and open source communities. Most recently, Dawn was leading
the Community Office within Intel’s Open Source Technology Center. In
addition to working at Intel, Dawn was an online community consultant,
and she has worked at Jive Software, Compiere, and a Midwestern
manufacturing company in positions ranging from Unix system
administrator to market researcher to community manager to open source
strategist. Dawn holds an MBA from Ashland University and a bachelor’s
degree in computer science from Kent State University.
