---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Nate Johnson
title: "Strategies for Pushing DevOps"
---

**Abstract:**
 
Abstract: In our business we deal with a number of different types of
customers, and more often than not we are faced with situations that
require us to “push” DevOps in order to achieve success. First, in
some circumstances, potential customers may arise with a complete lack
of exposure to DevOps. To tackle this issue, it is essential to become
a DevOps teacher and to educate in the beginning stages of the sales
process in order to create a flourishing relationship. Next, when
forming new partnerships or acquiring new clients, numerous parties
become involved in a project and you must provide a good feedback
system in place between many organizations. Another challenge is a
developer or systems person who is 100% terminal. It is essential to
help them shed the old ways and embrace automation. The last challenge
is someone who only expresses interest in cold, hard facts, and are
narrowly focused on solely what interests themselves. This is overcome
by finding out something the user is really interested in, delivering
those metrics, and correlating other metrics with the original,
showing them how much more information may be gleaned from the
available data.


**Speaker:**

Nate Johnson, CEO and founder of Reliam, graduated from the University
of California Riverside in 1996 with a BA in computer science. He
began his career at eNutrition as Manager of Systems and Networks and
from there went to Guidance Solutions as a Senior Technology
Consultant. Nate left his position at Guidance Solutions to be the
Manager of Information Technology at iSuppli Corporation. After two
years, Nate decided it was time to open his own company and in 2001
RIS Technology (now called Reliam) was formed. Most hosting companies
didn’t manage the relationship between server management and the
development of web application and Nate saw that as an important need
in the industry. Reliam developed Internet Application Management
which bridges the gap between services currently available from most
managed web hosting providers and the complete management of each
customer’s application.
 
Nate has written many articles and contributed to many books, most
recently, Security Sage’s Guide to Hardening the Network
Infrastructure. He also writes for industry blogs sharing his valuable
experience, advice, and industry knowledge.
