---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: David Mytton
title: "Firefighting - strategies for on call and incident management"
---

**Abstract:**

If you’re involved with ops then it’s pretty likely
you’ll experience an outage and be paged to deal with an incident. How
quickly a situation is resolved really depends on the processes in
place to deal with stressful situations. This talk will look at how to
properly deal with incidents, including tips and tricks for designing
an on-call system:

- Designing a process to deal with incidents, tracking their progress
to resolution. Systems which work whether it’s work hours or the
middle of the night make a difference to how quickly a situation is
resolved.

- Strategies for creating on-call rotations, when on call should
switch over, how to do a proper hand off, dealing with fatigue and
tools to help with this.

- Ideas for writing an operations handbook for how to deal with common
alerts for quick reference during incidents.

- How on-call and incident management fits into the development,
release and testing process to ensure the relevant people are
contactable in an emergency

- How the process changes from the early days of a startup through to
larger companies with dedicated teams.

The talk will look at some general concepts but will focus on real
world examples, with hints and tips to ensure everyone can take away
useful ideas and things to implement themselves.

**Speaker:**

David Mytton is the founder of Server Density, a SaaS tool which helps
you provision and monitor your infrastructure. Based in the UK, David
has been programming in Python and PHP for over 10 years and founded
the London MongoDB user group having deployed one of the earliest and
longest running production MongoDB clusters, now processing over 25TB
of data each month. This includes scaling Server Density from a single
VPS to over 150 servers, deployed across multiple data centres on both
dedicated and cloud infrastructure.


