---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Subhendu Mohapatra
title: "DevOps - Journey towards Selling the concept of DevOps"
---

**Abstract:**

DevOps has been the buzz word for a while. But large businesses and
clients with whom, I have worked with, do not understand or realize the
importance of DevOps.
 
We have numerous delivery teams and everyone works in their own silos.
This does not mean that we are not delivering changes but in a way it
highlights that we are not sharing information and we are re-inventing
the wheel many times.
 
We start every engagement from scratch and the re-invent the wheel, or
else adopt ourselves with the process and tools used within the client
engagement.
 
Having worked doing DevOps activities over the last number of years, I
realize that we donâ€™t have a core DevOps competency within my
organization. I have also realized that many of our competitors (in the
IT Consultancy domain) also do not have a DevOps service.  This does not
mean that we all are not delivering changes, but maybe we all have not
realized the importance of it.
 
Over the last one year, I have worked with my organization to help
create DevOps as a core competency. In my presentation, I will talk
about the key challenges in selling DevOps to a business. I will walk
through the process which we have used to start enabling DevOps service
and creating long term and short term goals.
 
In addition to the above, I have been working over the last year
engaging with numerous clients and generating the community of DevOps in
Ireland. We have a DevOps Ireland LinkedIn group, which has been
scouting for volunteers to share stories and experiences.  I will
highlight some of the key challenges I have come across such as,
creating awareness of DevOps in Ireland.

**Speaker:**

Subhendu Mohapatra
