---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Anand Rudrabhatla
title: Unchaining Development Agility
---

**Abstract:**

There is growing tension between delivering software quickly, and
being able to get the infrastructure to support the dev/test process
at a new agile pace. Companies are looking for ways to get to the
'continuous' state - continuous integration, continuous delivery, and
continuous deployment. A new approach and methodology is needed to
provide infrastructure on-demand with close to zero wait time.  The
cloud is the logical place to look for a solution, however, existing
IaaS solutions solve only part of the problem and are not built for
developers and testers. Vertical-based cloud solutions are now
becoming available to address specific business problems. In the
dev/test world, new technology enables rapid testing and continuous
delivery.  This new technology is available for “new” development
organizations adopting unconventional processes, as well as
development organizations dealing with older, traditional technology
like MSSQL, Oracle, AD etc. The new paradigm will not only reduce the
tension between IT and development, but will also enable collaboration
between co-located or distributed teams. We will present and discuss
the new methodology and technology used to solve the aforementioned
problems and share best practices. From this presentation, attendees
will learn about:

        * The "new paradigm" for facilitating agile application development 
        * Best practices for development and QA teams to effectively do ‘continuous development'
        * Alternatives to waiting for IT to set up your infrastructure that won’t get you in hot water
        * Methods for ensuring testing accuracy across your entire dev/test organization

**Speaker:**

Anand Rudrabhatla is a Product Manager at CloudShare. Anand has over
15 years’ experience in product management delivering enterprise
software products at several leading bay area technology companies. He
has deep expertise in the areas of software development lifecycle,
application performance, management and data center operations with
particular focus on scalability, reliability, supportability, and
performance. He has degrees in both Computer Science and Business
Administration. In his spare time, he enjoys reading and hiking.
