---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
ignite: true
talk: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Peco Karayanev
title: "From Monitoring, With Love"
---

**Abstract:**

Application monitoring and troubleshooting is a developer and
operations concern that causes friction.  The current model in which
DevOps runs release automation until it hits a performance wall, and
Operations swoops in to save the day is not working.  Since testers
cannot reproduce the complex application operational environment,
traditional testing tends to be reactive.  We need to change the
mindset to “if it is not broken, it may be breaking” and shift to
tracking close calls instead of relying excessively on actionable
alerts (which often create false positives).  According to the Process
Improvement Institute, a risk analysis firm, across many industries
there are between 50 and 100 near misses recoded per serious accident,
and about 10,000 smaller errors that occur during that time.  The
speaker will discuss practical approaches for implementing tracking of
close calls, the different groups of data sets available, a new
analytical approach and changes in DevOps to allow this.

**Speaker:**

Peco Karayanev, an APM domain expert, currently serves as Senior Field
Applications Engineer for Riverbed Technology .   Previously, he
served in the same role at OPNET, (the leader in Application and
Network Performance Management) , prior to its 2012 acquisition by
Riverbed.  Before that, Peco spent seven years at National
Instruments, where he worked most recently in the R&D division,
developing a control and provisioning framework (PIE), for several new
cloud-based SaaS products, and as a Web Systems Engineer supporting
ni.com.  Peco has presented at a variety of technology conferences
including Vignette Village, OPNETWORK, Oracle Open World and LASCON on
a panoply of systems and application performance topics.


Speaker contact info:  panayot.karayanev@riverbed.com

