---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Christian Beedgen
title: "Arm your DevOps Team with Big Data"
---

**Abstract:**

The IT industry is changing fast, and DevOps teams need tools that can
keep up with the pace –making their job easier, not more difficult.
Machine data analytics combines the agility and flexibility needed by
DevOps teams with the deep insight of Big Data-style analytics, but
it’s all about the right tools and approach. This session explores
strategies that align data analytics with the goals and workflow of
your DevOps team.
 
Some key take-aways will include:
 
Let the data speak for itself: Make only basic assumptions about the
data being consumed (time stamped, text-based, etc.). The important
patterns should be determined by the data itself, and not by
pre-judging what patterns are relevant, and which are not. Your
application rapidly changes, the patterns that are significant – both
good and worrisome– will also change accordingly.
 
Continuous reinterpretation: Never try to force the machine data into
tired old buckets that are forever out of date. The data should be
stored raw so that it can continually be reinterpreted and re-parsed
to reveal new meaning. Fast moving DevOps teams can’t wait for the
stodgy software vendor to change their code or send their consultant
onsite. They need it now.
 
Any metric you want, any time you want it: With a DevOps approach to
machine data analytics, the people that know the app the best, the
developers, produce the metrics needed to keep the app humming. Adding
a new metric can be as simple as writing a single line of code.
 
Set the data free: Free-flow of data is the new norm, and mash-ups
provide the most useful metrics. Specifically, pulling business data
from outside of the machine data context allows you to put it in the
proper perspective.
 
**Speaker:**

Christian Beedgen, Co-Founder and CTO at Sumo Logic 
